# MSci-Project
This repository hosts the computational work for my MSci project titled "Using Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) to solve black hole perturbations". This work is being undertaken in collaboration with Dr. Veitch and Dr. Messenger of the Institute of Gravitational Research at the University of Glasgow. 

I started the project by getting to grips with the PyTorch library and created various neural networks (e.g. using the MNIST data set) and PINNs to solve the damped harmonic oscillator and a (1+1)D plucked string. These networks and my learning of PyTorch can be found in the files NeuralNetworkPractice.ipynb, Damped Harmonic Oscillator.ipynb, y(x,t) Oscillator.ipynbb and Pytorch.ipynb. Alongside my introduction to PINNs, I learned about black hole perturbation theory, in particular the Regge-Wheeler-Zerilli (RWZ) equation and how its solutions can be used to analyse the frequency response of Schwarzschild black holes. Five weeks into the project I wrote an eight page review of my findings, the PINN results and a plan for the rest of the project. This review will serve as the introduction for my final project write-up due at the end of the March. 

Next, I set aside the PINNs and focused on developing a numerical solver for the RWZ equation. My first task was to find a way of converting from $r_*$ to $r$ coordinates as the RWZ has a derivative with respect to $r_*$ but the Regge-Wheeler and Zerilli potentials are functions of the $r$ coordinate alone. My work on the coordinate transformation is detailed in Coordinate Transform.ipynb. I had in mind that I wanted to simulate an initial perturbation in the form of a Gaussian wavepacket so simulated a Gaussian wave as a solution to the (1+1)D wave equation using Scipy's solve_ivp function. This method of solving the wave equation worked fine for the Gaussian but felt clunky and used large amounts of computational resources when applied to the RWZ equation, especially when I tried to implement both boundary and initial conditions. To tackle this I looked into finite difference methods and settled on the Leapfrog algorithm due to its stability when the CFL condition is met (ideal for a gravitational perturbation travelling at a constant speed) and its suitability to the (1+1)D wave equation-like RWZ equation. The finite difference method approach also made adding first order Sommerfeld absorbing boundary conditions to the simulation straight-forward. Once I was sure my code had no bugs, I created a Class to allow easily repeated application of the simulation and added gif functionality. The gifs produced showed the expected behaviour- propagation of the Gaussian wave packet in $r_*$ towards infinity and partial reflection and transmission at the potential barrier. The Leapfrog solver work is included in files Leapfrog.py, Leapfrog RWZ.py and Leapfrog RWZ.ipynb and the Class in Class.py. In the simulation of the Gaussian wave, I took inspiration from a similar simulation my friend Tom Forbes did in a third year lab, his code is included in the file Tom Gaussian.ipynb.

More to follow...
